.\" nidhi(1) man page
.TH NIDHI 1 "February 2026" "nidhi v0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nidhi \- purpose-built TUI for git stash mastery
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nidhi
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nidhi
is a terminal user interface for managing Git stashes. It provides a
three-tier progressive disclosure interface (LIST, PREVIEW, DETAIL) with
fuzzy search, conflict preview, export/import, undo, rename, reorder,
and branch filtering capabilities.
.PP
nidhi turns
.B git stash
from a write-and-forget black hole into a visible, searchable, portable
treasure vault.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " LEVEL"
Set log level. Valid values: off, error, warn, info, debug. Default: off.
Logs are written to ~/.local/state/nidhi/nidhi.log.
.TP
.B \-\-trace\-git
Log all git commands with arguments, exit code, and duration.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print startup timing breakdown and exit. Useful for performance diagnostics.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable all colors. Equivalent to setting NO_COLOR=1.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-animation
Disable all animations. Equivalent to setting REDUCE_MOTION=1.
.TP
.BI \-\-icons " SET"
Icon set to use. Valid values: auto (default), nerd (Nerd Fonts), ascii.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-directory " \fIPATH\fR"
Run as if nidhi was started in the given directory.
.SH KEYBOARD NAVIGATION
.SS Global
.TP
.B q, Ctrl+c
Quit nidhi.
.TP
.B ?
Toggle help overlay.
.TP
.B Esc
Go back / close overlay.
.SS LIST Mode
.TP
.B j/k
Move cursor down/up.
.TP
.B g/G
Jump to first/last stash.
.TP
.B Ctrl+d/Ctrl+u
Page down/up.
.TP
.B a
Apply selected stash.
.TP
.B p
Pop selected stash.
.TP
.B d
Drop selected stash (with undo toast).
.TP
.B n
Create new stash.
.TP
.B r
Rename selected stash.
.TP
.B m
Mark/unmark selected stash with a session pin.
.TP
.B /
Open search.
.TP
.B Tab
Toggle PREVIEW mode.
.TP
.B Enter
Enter DETAIL mode.
.TP
.B z
Undo last drop.
.TP
.B J/K
Move stash down/up (reorder).
.TP
.B e/i
Export/import stashes.
.TP
.B fb/fs/fc
Filter by branch / stale / clear filters.
.SS PREVIEW Mode
.TP
.B h/l
Cycle through changed files in the diff preview.
.TP
.B Tab
Toggle back to LIST mode.
.SS DETAIL Mode
.TP
.B Tab
Switch focus between file tree and diff viewport.
.SH CONFIGURATION
nidhi reads configuration from (in priority order):
.IP 1. 4
CLI flags
.IP 2. 4
Environment variables (NIDHI_*)
.IP 3. 4
Git config (nidhi.* section)
.IP 4. 4
Config file (~/.config/nidhi/config.toml)
.IP 5. 4
Built-in defaults
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NIDHI_STALE_DAYS
Stale threshold in days (default: 14).
.TP
.B NIDHI_ICONS
Icon set: auto, nerd, ascii.
.TP
.B NIDHI_LOG_LEVEL
Log level: off, error, warn, info, debug.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
If set, disables all color output.
.TP
.B REDUCE_MOTION
If set, disables all animations.
.TP
.B NERD_FONTS
If set to 1, forces Nerd Font icons.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/nidhi/config.toml
User configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/nidhi/nidhi.log
Debug log file (when --log-level is set).
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/nidhi/reorder-journal.json
Reorder operation journal for crash recovery.
.SH GIT VERSION REQUIREMENTS
.TP
.B Git >= 2.22
Core features (stash push, branch --show-current).
.TP
.B Git >= 2.38
Conflict preview via merge-tree --write-tree.
.TP
.B Git >= 2.51
Export/import stashes.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit.
.TP
.B 1
Error (not a git repo, git not found, etc.).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Launch nidhi in the current directory:
.B nidhi
.TP
Launch in a specific repository:
.B nidhi -C /path/to/repo
.TP
Launch with debug timing:
.B nidhi --debug
.TP
Launch with ASCII icons and no color:
.B nidhi --icons ascii --no-color
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/indrasvat/nidhi/issues.
.SH AUTHOR
indrasvat <https://github.com/indrasvat>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-stash (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR lazygit (1)
